System-defined taxonomies architecture decisions (#56)
openedx/openedx-learning: docs/decisions/0013-system-taxonomy-auto-tagging.rst

13. System-defined automatic tagging
=====================================

Context
--------

One main characteristic of the System-defined is the automatic content tagging. 
It is necessary to implement this functionality when the associated content is created or edited.

Decision
---------

Use `openedx-filters`_ to call the auto tagging function after content creation/edition.
After create the ``Content-side`` class, `register a pipeline`_ with the respective filter.
Some filters must to be created, like ``CourseCreation``, ``LibraryCreation``, etc.

> All this logic will be live on ``openedx.features.tagging``.

Reviewer: I think it's better for the new filters themselves to live outside of `openedx.features.tagging`?

The filter logic itself will still live in `openedx-filters`, and the events that trigger the filters should live as close to the content creation as possible. The `openedx.features.tagging` code should simply register to receive these events and act on them -- as may other `openedx` libraries that care about content creation.

Author: @pomegranited Yes, I updated the doc to be more clear about it :+1:

Rejected Options
-----------------

Django Signals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Implement a function to add the tag from the content metadata and register that function

> as a Django signal. Use openedx-filters is better in the edx context, but if there is

Reviewer: nit: u
```suggestion
as a Django signal. This works for Django database models, but some of the content lives in Mongo, outside of the Django models. Also, Using openedx-filters is better in the edx context, but if there is
```

13. System-defined automatic tagging
=====================================

Context
--------

> One main characteristic of the System-defined is the automatic content tagging. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One main characteristic of system-defined taxonomies is automatic content tagging. 
```

It is necessary to implement this functionality when the associated content is created or edited.

Decision
---------

Use `openedx-filters`_ to call the auto tagging function after content creation/edition.

Filters
~~~~~~~~

It is necessary to create `filters`_ for each content for creation/edition: ``CourseCreation``, ``LibraryCreation``, etc.

> This filters will live on ``openedx-filters``.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
These filters will live in ``openedx-filters``.
```

Pipelines
~~~~~~~~~~

> After create the ``Content-side`` class for each content and taxonomy,
> create a function inside each class with the logic of the auto tagging.
> Then you need to register each class as `a pipeline`_ with the respective filter.
> 
> This pipelines will live on ``openedx.features.tagging``

Reviewer: I think this can be simpler, since it's only the code encapsulation we need to specify here:
```suggestion
Auto-tagging pipelines will live under ``openedx.features.tagging``, registered as `a pipeline`_ with the respective filter.
```

Rejected Options
-----------------

Django Signals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Implement a function to add the tag from the content metadata and register that function
as a Django signal. This works for Django database models, but some of the content lives in Mongo, 
outside of the Django models. Also, using openedx-filters is better in the edx context, but if there is
other no-edX project that need to use ``openedx-tagging``, can use the Django Signals approach.

> .. _openedx-filters: https://github.com/openedx/openedx-filters/tree/a4a192e1cac0b70bed31e0db8e4c4b058848c5c4

Reviewer: Better to link to project home:
```suggestion
.. _openedx-filters: https://github.com/openedx/openedx-filters
```
